I graduated
from high school that summer
and wanted to start
regular pioneering.
That’s my dad, Grayson.
Dad was having
car trouble that morning
and needed a ride to work,
so I gave him one.
OK, my car
was a little messy and smelly.
I mean, it was winter,
and my car is pretty old anyway.
So why bother?
When I get a new car,
then I’ll keep it clean.
But he was making
a big deal out of nothing.
That morning was not good.
I thought it was over.
But later that evening,
Dad brought it up again.
But this time, it went better.
He showed me a picture of his first car.
It looked pretty old too.
He said that while our home
or car may not be
fancy or luxurious,
it should be as clean and presentable
as circumstances allow.
I still didn’t see what the big deal was.
Then, he explained
that Jehovah is a clean God,
and from ancient times,
he has always required
that his people be a clean people.
Under the Mosaic Law
that Jehovah gave to Israel,
cleanness and worship
were inseparable.
It specified that priests were required
to wash their hands and feet
before offering sacrifices to Jehovah.
While in an unclean state, an Israelite
could not have
any part in worship,
or it could mean death.
I said, “I’m not an Israelite,
and we’re not
under the Mosaic Law anymore.”
He said, “True, but it gives us insight
into Jehovah’s thinking.”
The Law emphasized that cleanness
was required
of all those who worshipped him.
And as Malachi 3:6 tells us,
‘Jehovah has not changed.’
Then, he said something
that really stuck with me,
“Besides, it’s not all about us.”
Then, he gave me a scripture to look up.
It was 2 Corinthians 6:3, 4:
“In no way are we giving
any cause for stumbling,
“so that no fault
may be found with our ministry;
“but in every way
we recommend ourselves as God’s ministers.”
I realized that things like our appearance,
our homes, and our cars
—these can all be
a silent witness to Jehovah in themselves.
It made sense to me now.
It’s not all about us.
I knew what I had to do.
Not only did I clean my car,
but later that year,
I was able to turn in
my application for pioneering.
And I’m glad for the lesson
I learned from my dad.
It’s not all about us.
Even in little ways,
we can reflect favorably
on the God we love.